All right now I want to look at conductors.
All right.
Conductors and it could be any shape here I have a piece of copper pipe.
This is a conductor now what happens if I charge it.
What is the electric field inside.
The conductor and the other thing I could ask is what happens if I place a conductor inside an electric
field.
OK if AJ and I place this copper pipe inside parallel plates that are charged and produce a uniform
electric field.
What would happen.
OK.
So there's a couple of properties of conductors and electric fields that are important to review here
and try to understand.
All right.
So let's get started.
So let's start with just the conductor.
I'm gonna make it any arbitrary shape it really doesn't matter all right.
Just write it down that this is a conductor could be a piece of copper aluminum something where the
electrons are free to move.
Right.
That's kind of our definition.
So this is a conductor.
Now one important property of conductors let's write it over here.
The field inside
the electric field inside has to be equal to zero.
Okay this is super important if there's anything you remember about conductors it's this the field inside
has to be zero.
Think about it if it's the opposite of this right.
What happens if there is an electric field inside.
Imagine here we have an electric field inside the conductor which points like this well that automatically
means that if I have an electron over here it's going to have a force acting on it.
Okay.
And if there is a force acting on the charge it means these charges would move.
And that's really not what's happening.
Because if you have moving charges that is actually an electric current.
And if you just have a piece of metal a conductor just sitting there there are no charges that are moving.
All right.
So that is kind of the key thing right at the beginning is that the electric field inside must be zero.
OK.
And this is always
we're going to see later on if you look at electric circuits.
Now that's a different case you might have a piece of copper connected to a battery.
All right in that case the charges will move.
But if we just have a static conductor a piece of metal just sitting somewhere the fuel must be inside.
All right what happens then if I add charge to the surface.
Right.
What happens if I do some if I rub it against something or if I use some induction.
What happens.
The charge imagine I add electrons to this conductor what happens to those charges.
Well now there can't be an electron anywhere inside here.
Right.
This wouldn't make sense because these two charges would produce electric fields.
And we said we can't have an electric field inside the conductor.
So actually what happens if you add charges they actually all end up right at the surface of the conductor.
So let's add a whole bunch of negative charges to this conductor
if you charge it.
If we add charge to a neutral conductor all of those charges will be at the surface they're gonna end
up at the surface.
Now the other thing you might ask yourself well how are those charges going to spread out on the surface.
OK.
Charges will always spread out.
Let me write it down.
Charges will spread out
in such a way that the E inside is always zero.
So the charges are going to find a way to spread out not always evenly especially if you have some sharp
corners like this.
Right.
But they're going to find a way to spread out so that the total electric field inside must be zero.
One thing we you can typically find is that along the straight sections the charge density of this conductor
over here is tends to be small.
This here charge density that's the charge per unit area tends to be small.
If there's one more bending.
OK sharper.
Kind of turns to this conductor you tend to have a larger charge density smaller charge density along
kind of straight surfaces.
Probably more charges along the corners and you need that in order to get the total field inside to
be equal to zero.
So here's kind of a sharp sharp turn in the conductor probably more charge along this surface.
So imagine.
So I've added charge.
So there is a total charge here to this piece of metal.
The question is well if e is zero inside.
What about the outside electric field.
So outside.
Well you could look at a point that's very very close to it.
Right.
If you were going to look at a point that's close to this.
The other property of electric fields close.
The conductors if they're charged the electric field is always perpendicular to the surface.
He is perpendicular to surface
super important.
So let me also write it down over here.
He is perpendicular to the surface.
There is no component of the electric field that is parallel to the surface right.
I imagine you had a parallel component to the electric field at the surface and we just said that's
where the charges are.
If there is a component like this it means there would be a force acting on the charge which would tend
to move the charge along the surface.
And that's really not what is happening.
Those charges are in equilibrium and you're gonna have that only if the electric field is perpendicular
to the surface like this.
If you remembered our parallel plate we said that the field was for parallel plates e parallel was equal
to Sigma divided by epsilon 0.
This was between the plates
for a conductor.
Again the charge density is not the same everywhere.
Right.
It could be bigger in some sections it could be smaller and straighter segments.
If you actually wanted to measure the charge density one way to do it is to measure the electric field
we said it's perpendicular and actually this electric field is still it's actually the same as parallel
plates.
It turns out to prove this you can use Gauss as law which we could do later on.
You could also use some calculus which is a little bit more complicated depending on the situation.
But what this does here is if there is a certain charge density right here and I measure the field close
to it then on the electric field is actually proportional to the charge density right here.
Now the charge density is not the same everywhere.
So for example right here the electric field is a little bit bigger.
I have it actually in the wrong direction right here since this is negatively charged.
Well I'm sorry about that.
Right the electric field should point like this and the magnitude of this field should look like Epsilon
0 and the EPS the signal over here is the charge density very close to the point where I'm observing
the field now the field produced by this is not uniform but if you go close to the surface again it
should be close to constant and it should be perpendicular to the surface.
All right so let's start with a conductor here.
I'm going to assume that the total charge on the conductor is neutral.
OK so there's nothing on it.
And what I'm going to do is I'm going to place that conductor inside parallel plates.
All right.
There it is right over here.
You're going to place it right in the middle.
Now my parallel plates here have charges on them.
So here's the one on the left here is positively charged.
The one on the right you could see has some negative charge on it and these parallel plates produce
a an electric field right.
This is the field produced by the parallel plates.
They point away from the positive and toward the negative.
So what happens now when I place this neutral conductor inside the parallel plates like this.
Let's go place inside
place inside an electric field.
Right.
That's what we're doing.
All right.
What's going to happen.
Well again we require that the total field inside the conductor has to be zero.
But how can that be if it's placed inside an electric field.
We must have e total on the inside equals to zero but if you zoom in over here let me zoom in to this
conductor.
If I place it inside an electric field produced by the parallel plates you definitely have a field like
this.
This is the field produced by the parallel plates.
But if e has to be zero inside it means there has to be some electric field that has to cancel the one
from the parallel plates.
Right.
This is from parallel plates
and this is the electric field produced by the conductor to cancel it out because at the end you need
zero inside.
So this is kind of induced.
So what happens you take a neutral conductor and in order to cancel out the field what you're going
to end up doing is you're going to end up getting negative charges on one side of the conductor and
that's going to leave the other side positive.
So let's have a look at that right.
If I have some negative charges over here and that leaves the other side positive at the end these charges
on the surface they produce this electric field that's going to cancel the other one so when you add
them all up as vectors you get that inside must be equal to zero.
The other property that you could see from here.
Let me just clean up this figure a little bit.
Is that now on the outside.
You notice that the electric field lines.
Now again they have to start from positive and they have to end at the negative.
But we have some negatives over here.
You can see that the electric field gets kind of altered.
That's because it's not only the field produced by parallel plates anymore.
It's also the field produced by the charges on this surface of the conductor.
At the end what we're always going to find is that the electric field when it again it has the end that
these negative charges right here it actually always has to be perpendicular to the surface.
If it's not perpendicular to the surface again that's the same argument I made previously.
If you have an electric field that's parallel to the surface that's not going to work because that's
going to produce a force on the charges.
So you can't have anything like this.
So at the end the total field looks much much more complicated than was before but a couple of the same
properties exists the electric field inside any conductor is zero.
And the field lines they always end up being perpendicular here to the surface doesn't matter on which
surface you're looking at even if you have something more complicated.
One thing that's kind of cool is if you take a conductor instead of it being a solid over here even
if you're a conductor has a hole inside right.
Imagine there was a hole inside.
We call this a cavity inside the conductor.
One of the properties here is that the electric field inside that cavity is also going to be zero.
So actually what you can do is you can put anything inside this cavity here and there's not going to
be an electric field inside.
So a lot of times we do something called shielding.
Sometimes people put like a human inside a shield or inside like a metal fence and a metal fence is
basically a conductor.
Right.
And you can be protected from a large electric field on the outside because on the inside of the conductor
the electric field should be zero.
So they call this shielding the inside is zero.
Approximately zero.
This is not a if it's a fence it has a lot of holes in it.
Right.
But nonetheless it's still kind of like a conductor and you get a prize you get a very small electric
field on the inside of the cavity.